# Glitch

This project continuously hesitates to comment on salient, event-like anomalies because it cultivates a particular conceit called “theory”. The intellectual import of this conceit is that, in theoretical work, an all-consuming effort is placed on making sense of salient *structure-like anomalies*. The philosophical import of this all-consuming effort is that systems thinking implies there is a *single structural anomaly* — that salient structure-like anomalies must always/continually reproduce themselves in a system-like anomalous homeostasis.

At this point, the reader should react with skeptical reflexes: how can something that is so stable and wide-encompassing be characterized as an anomaly?

Baudrillard famously says that “the secret of theory is that truth does not exist” just as “the secret of gambling is that money does not exist”. Surely enough, there is money, but anomalously so — which is to say, without *nomos*, without law. Under “ambient conditions of gambling” money is fully disconnected — not only from the wide system of value that makes it money-like, but also from local continuity laws. In gambling, money is savage.

The concerns of theory may be contrasted with the concerns of Science, as perhaps best epitomized by physics. But classical physics, which appears to mirror phenomenal reality to useful extents, has deeply unsatisfactory limitations: it can't, for example, produce an arrow of time. Living up to their reputation for being the smartest apes the species has bred, physicists have managed to proliferate arrows of time in models of increasing abstraction and unintuitiveness. In other words: physics gambles with abstraction and occasionally makes bank, reaches empirical validity and even woos our metaphysical hearts with tales of worlds utterly unlike human experience. 

We should have great reverence for the sheer cleverness and power of these models — but not mistake them for theories of the world. On the contrary, there's irony of the purest kind in the topsy-turvyness worlds of modern physics: they're conceived in hopes of  trying to restore the *nomos*, yet everything in them appears to us as strange. Attempts to resolve an anomaly (the undirectedness of time in the classical setting) produce -- through serious and arduous theoretical work -- further, more basic anomalies: *science cannot “drain the swamp” of anomaly.*

Theory is a bet on the glitch. It obsesses over structural anomaly because of a spectral base-band suspicion that most of the world is anomalous.  You’re sitting at a computer right now: notice how uneven its temporality, how unknowable in its automatic orchestration of archeological piles of cruft. Software engineering *assumes glitchiness* and occupies itself with mitigation. Interact mindfully with your computer, notice its near-organic unreliability, its incorrectness. The motto of our era is that “software is eating the world”: this means **glitches are eating the world**. 

Search your hearts. Or ask any software engineer.

The core anomaly of computers is that they’re actually useful. The core anomaly of the 2020 coronavirus disease is that its mostly harmless — while also being deadly almost at random. The mot du jour, “asymptomatic carrier”, expresses this incredible paradox: being sick — and contributing to the systemic illness — while not being sick at all. But to properly think of the glitch we have to allow theory to careen our lurching conceptual inertia. Most of real temporality is  `tempo` ; most of the agency in the world is contingent on `axiologies` over axiologies over axiologies over… Most meaning is in `seduction` and withdrawn enjoyment; most communication happens through orchestration of extradiegetic technologies in order to make `diegesis` happen; and if killing is sex, it is so due to a paradox known as `physique du rôle`.

Theory (in the generic-most sense developed by this project) is grand conceit: it proliferates entities and arguments founded on phantom hypotheticals in hopes of breaking free — on sucking the marrow of the Real, feverishly gambling episteme to win big.
